.\" vi: tw=80
.\"
.\" BSD Zero Clause License
.\" 
.\" Copyright (c) 2022 Thomas Voss
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted.
.\" 
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH
.\" REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
.\" AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT,
.\" INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR
.\" OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
.\" PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: September 8 2022 $
.Dt LUXINIT 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm luxinit ,
.Nm luxfree
.Nd initialize and destroy a luxdisp struct
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In lux.h
.Ft int
.Fn luxinit "struct luxdisp *disp"
.Ft void
.Fn luxfree "struct luxdisp *disp"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn luxinit
function initializes the values of the
.Vt "struct luxdisp"
structure pointed to by
.Va disp .
Allocation of
.Va disp
is left up to the user.
All
.Vt "struct luxdisp"
structures should be initialized with the
.Fn luxinit
function before being used with any other library functions.
.Pp
The
.Fn luxfree
function does the opposite of the
.Fn luxinit
function, cleaning up all the resources used by the
.Vt "struct luxdisp"
structure pointed to by
.Va disp .
This function should be called for all
.Vt "struct luxdisp"
structures that have been initialized by
.Fn luxinit
after they are no longer required.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The
.Fn luxinit
function returns the file descriptior of the directory containing the backlight
files located in
.Pa /sys/class/backlight
on success.
On error, \-1 is returned and
.Va errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Pp
The
.Fn luxfree
function returns no value.
.Sh EXAMPLES
The following program initializes a new
.Vt "struct luxdisp"
structure, uses it to set the display brightness to 100%, and then frees the
resources used by the structure.
.Bd -literal -offset indent
#include <err.h>
#include <stdlib.h>

#include <lux.h>

int
main(void)
{
	struct luxdisp disp;

	if (luxinit(&disp) == -1)
		err(EXIT_FAILURE, "luxinit");
	luxsetp(&disp, 100.0);
	luxfree(&disp);

	return EXIT_SUCCESS;
}
.Ed
.Sh ERRORS
.Fn luxinit
can fail with any of the errors specified for
.Fn fdopendir ,
.Fn open ,
.Fn openat ,
or
.Fn readdir .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr luxdec 3 ,
.Xr luxdecp 3 ,
.Xr luxget 3 ,
.Xr luxgetp 3 ,
.Xr luxinc 3 ,
.Xr luxincp 3 ,
.Xr luxmax 3 ,
.Xr luxset 3 ,
.Xr luxsetp 3
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Thomas Voss Aq Mt thomasvoss@live.com
